/* Lecture Notes - Seng299 */

Quality Attribute - Modifiability

Modifiabiity:
    ❑ The ability to change or alter a current architecture
    

Architects questions:
    ❑ what can change?
    ❑ what is the likelihood of change
    ❑ when is the change made and who makes it?
    
    ❑ what is the cost of the change
        ❑ the cost of introducing mechanisms to make the system more modifiable
        ❑the cost of making the modification using the mechanisms
        
    Scenario:
        
        
        Source:                 Stimulus:               Envrironment:       Response:           Response Measure:
        Develper    ------->   Wishes to   --------->   Design Time   -----> Change Made  ----> In three hours
                               change UI                Artifact:            and Unit
                                                        code                 Tested
                                                        
                                                        
        Source:
            ❑ End user, developer, system administrator
        Stimulus:
            ❑ A directive to add/delete/modify functionality, or change a quality attribute, capacity, or 
              technology
        Artifacts:
            ❑ Code, data, interfaces, components, resources, configurations... etc
        Enivornment:
            ❑ Runtime, compile time, build time, initiation time, design time
        Response:
            ❑ One or more of the following
                ❑ make modification
                ❑ deploy modification
        Response measure:
            ❑ Cost in terms of the following:
                ❑ Number, size, complexity of affected artifacts
                ❑ efort
                ❑ calendar time
                ❑ money (direct outlay or opportunity cost)
                ❑ Extent to which this modification affects other functions or quality attributes
                ❑ New defects introduced
        
        
    Tactics for controlling Modifiability:
        \-> Reduce size of a module
            ❑ Split Module:
                ❑ If the module being modified includes a great deal of capability, the modification costs will
                  likley be high. Refining the module to several smaller modules should reduce the average cost
                  of future changes.
        \-> increase cohesion:
            ❑ cohesion means:
                ❑ unity of pupose
            ❑ low cohesion is bad for modifiability'
            ❑ Open/closed principle:
                ❑ In object-oriented programming, the open/closed principle states "Sofware entities (classes,
                  modules, functions, etc) should be open for extension, but closed for modification", that is
                  such an entity can allow its behaviour to be modified without altering its source code.
        \-> reduce coupling:
            ❑  options:
                ❑ Encapsulate
                    ❑ encapsulation introduces an explicit interface to a module. This interface includes an API 
                      and its associated responsibilities, such as "perfor a syntatic transformation on an input
                      parameter to an internal representation"
                ❑ use an intermediary
                    ❑ Given a dependency between responsibility A and responsibility B (eg. carrying out A first
                      requires carrying out B), the dependecny can be broken by using an intermediary
                      ❑ Eg, Publish-subscribe intermediary
                      ❑ shared data repository to separate the readers of a piece of data from the writers of
                        the data.
                ❑ restrict dependencies
                ❑ refactor
                ❑ abstract common services
            ❑ High coupling is bad for modifiability
        \-> defer binding
            ❑ Parameters are best-known mechanism for introducing flexibility; eg. f(a,b) is more general than 
              f(a) that assumes b = 0;
            ❑ At compile time or build time:
                ❑ component replacement (eg in a build script or a makefuile)
                ❑ compile-time parameterization
                ❑ aspects
            ❑ at deployment time:
                ❑ configuration-time binding
            ❑ at startup or initialization time:
                ❑ Resource files
            ❑ at runtime:
                ❑ runtime registration, dynamic lookup (eg for services)
                ❑ interpret parameters, startup time binding 
                ❑ name servers, plug-ins, publish-subscribe, shared repositories
                ❑ polymorphism
                
Design Checklist:
    review in boook.... :(
            
        
        
