/* Lecture Notes - Seng299 */

QA-Review:
    
    Quality Attributes:
        ❑ A quality attribute (QA) is a measurable or testable property of a system that is used to indicate how 
        well the system satisfies the needs of its stakeholders.

    Categories of Requirements:
        \-> Functional Requirements
            ❑ what the SW should do
        \-> Quality requirements
            ❑ Qualifications (eg speed, reliability)
        \-> Constraints:
            ❑ coming from somewhere... Stakesholders, hardware, platforms...
    
    Architecture "Response":
        \-> What is the "response" of architecture to each of these kinds of requirements?
            ❑ Functional Requirements are satisfied by assigning an appropriate sequence of responsibilites
              throughout the design.
            ❑ Quality requirements  are satisfied by the various structures designed into the architecture, 
              and the behaviours and interactions of the elements that populate those structures
            ❑ Constraints are accepted into design decisions and reconciled with other affected design decisions
    
    Functionality:
        ❑ is the ability of the system to do the work for which it was intended
        ❑ of all of the requirements, functionality has the strongest relationship to architecture
        
    Quality Requirements:
        ❑ Pertain to the functions of a system
            ❑ how quickly does the dialog appear?(performance)
            ❑ how often will this function fail? (availability)
            ❑ how easy is it to learn this function? (usability)
            
    3 Problems with Quality Attributes:
        1) testability:
            ❑ many quality attributes are difficult to test
        2) Mapping of concern to quality factor
            ❑ eg: Is a system failure due to a denial-of-service attack an aspect of availability, an aspect
                  of performance, an aspect of security, or an aspect of usability?
        3) vocabulary:
            ❑ Performance community: "failures", usability community: "user input"
            
    2 categories of Quality Attributes:
        ❑ QAs that describe some property of the system at runtime, such as availability,
          performance, or usability
        ❑ QAs that describe some property of the development of the system, such as modifiability or testability
        
    Specifying QA requirements:
        ❑ Stimulus:
            ❑ Event, user opertations, attack, or mod. request
        ❑ Stimulus resource:
            ❑ origin of the stimulus
        ❑ environment:
            ❑ The stimulus occurs under certain conditions
        ❑ artifact:
            ❑ the part that is stimulated
        ❑ response:
            ❑ expected response of the system
        ❑ response measure:
            ❑ what signififes an acceptable response
        
    Guiding Quality design decisions:
        \-> Seven categories:
            ❑ Allocation of responsibilities
                ❑ Identifying the important responsibilites, including basic system functions, architectural
                  infrastructure, and satisfaction of quality attributes
                ❑ Determining how these respoinsibilities are allocated to non-runtime and runtime elements
                  (namely, modules, components, and connectors)
                ❑ Strategies for making these decisions include functional decomposition, modeling
                  real-world objects, grouping based on the major modes of system operation, or grouping 
                  based on similar quality requirements: processing frame rate, security level, or expected 
                  changes.
            ❑ coordination model
                ❑ identifying the elements of the system that must coordinate or atre prohitbited from
                  coordinating
                ❑ Determining the properties of the coordination, such as timeliness, currency, completeness,
                  correctness, and consistency
                ❑ Choosing the communication mechanisms (between systems, between our systems and external
                  entities, between elements of our system) that realize those properties. IMportant properties
                  of communication mechanisms include stateful versus stateless, synchronous vs asynchronous,
                  guaranteed versus nongauranteed delievery, and performance-related propertites such as
                  throughput and latency
            ❑ data model
                ❑ Choosing the major data abstractions, their operations, and their  properties. THis
                  includes determining how the data items are created, initialized, accessed, persisted,
                  manipulated, translate, and destroyed
                ❑ Compiling metadata needed for consistent interpretation of the data.
                ❑ Organizing the data. This includes determing whether the data is going to be kept in the 
                  relational database, a collection of objects, or both. if both, then the mapping between the
                  two locations must be determined.
            ❑ management of resources
                ❑ Identifying the resources that must be managed and determining the limites for each (eg CPU
                  memory, battery, I/O ports etc)
                ❑ Determining which system elements manage each resource
                ❑ Determining how resources are shared and arbitration strategies employed when there is 
                  contention.
                ❑ Determining the impact of saturation on different resources
                    ❑ eg. as a CPU becomes mroe heavily loaded, performance usually just degrades steadily.
                          However when you run out of memory, you start paging.swapping intensively and
                          performance suddenly crashes to a halt.
            ❑ mapping among architectural elements:
                ❑ The mappings of modules and runtime elements to each other -- that is, the runtime elements
                  that are created from each module; the modules that contain the code for each runtime element
                ❑ THe assignment of runtime elements to processors
                ❑ the assignment of items in the data model to data stores
                ❑ the mapping of modules and runtime elements to units of delivery
            ❑ binding time decisons
                ❑ BInding time decidsions introduce allowable ranges of variation. this variation can be bound
                  at different time in the software life cycle by a user
                ❑ examples:
                    ❑ build time selection of modules via a parameterized makefule
                    ❑ runtime negotiation of protocols
                    ❑ new peripheral devices pligged in a runtime, after which the system installs the right
                      drivers
            ❑ choice of technology
                ❑ Deciding which technologies are available
                ❑ determining whether the available tools to support this technology choice are adequate
                ❑ determining the extent of internal familiarity as well as the degree of external 
                  support available for the technology
                ❑ determining the side effects of choosing a technology, such as a required coordination model
                ❑ determining whether a new technology is compatible with existing technology stack.
